Continuing our excellent program, we will now get to enjoy our final talk.
And the brother Anthony Morris of the governing body will be giving this talk to us,
and he has an interesting theme also.
A blueprint for spiritual success.
Brother Morris, please give us this valuable blueprint.
To introduce the information, I thought I'd show you this here, and this is a blueprint.
Now this one happens to be, I got it from a friend of mine.
This was part of the blueprint for building world headquarters.
So this is connected with the offices, services, building, and that's the blueprint.
Now what I did learn is that you also have, and I got it, in that business,
a lot of them are white background now.
In Webster's dictionary, it did capture that fact very nicely.
Here's what it says, defining a blueprint, that word,
a photographic print in white on a bright blue ground, or blue on a white ground.
It used, especially for copying maps, mechanical drawings, and architect plans.
Particularly thinking of the architect plans.
And I couldn't help but think about Proverbs chapter 8, and we see there Jesus being referred to as the master worker.
And Jehovah really, the architect, he's the creator.
Now Jesus was a spiritual success with that, because he followed the architect's direction.
So that's something I want you to keep in mind, and we'll get to the blueprint, as I'm calling it in a moment.
The other definition in Webster's dictionary, I thought, was pertinent.
Something resembling a blueprint, as in serving as a model, or providing guidance.
And I love that one little expression that appeared after that, especially a detailed plan or program of action.
So that's how I'm borrowing that word, a blueprint, with these following thoughts and Peter's second letter.
So if you could, we're going to show you what I'm referring anyway to as a blueprint for spiritual success.
So second Peter, chapter one, and there's nine things you'll notice here that we're going to emphasize in verses five through seven.
So Peter writes, for this very reason, put forth all earnest effort to supply to your faith, virtue, to your virtue knowledge, to your knowledge self control,
to your self control endurance, to your endurance, godly devotion, to either godly devotion, brotherly affection, to your brotherly affection, love.
So there's the blueprint.
So there's nine thoughts that are expressed here.
Obviously, there's a lot of other things that you'll have gave us the whole Bible, but this is just for a nice memory aid, a good blueprint for you to continue as spiritual successful people.
Now, the first one there is earnest effort.
Now, obviously, and we commend you for it, you've shown earnest effort just to come this far to be invited to Gilead and to qualify for that and during your class and going out in the ministry and the weekends earnest effort.
So you have to continue that.
That's not born with earnest effort. That's a decision you make. I have to make the same decision. We're going to put forth earnest effort starts there. No effort, no success.
So each individual has to decide, I'm putting forth the earnest effort here and I'm going to be a success.
You get the earnest effort and then this is what's involved here. I have the effort to have faith.
Now, time doesn't allow to go to detail on each one of these, but faith obviously is essential.
Now, notice in the Hebrew chapter 12 or excuse me 11, Hebrews 11 and absolute necessity of faith to be a spiritual success here in chapter 11 verse 1.
Faith is the assured expectation of what is hope for the evident demonstration of realities that are not seen.
So it goes down to emphasize the need for it. Now, essential it is in verse 6, same chapter.
Moreover, without faith, it is impossible to please God. Well, for whoever approaches God must believe that he is and that he becomes the rewater of those earnestly seeking him.
That's pretty clear.
Not easy to misunderstand what's being said here. You have to keep your assured expectation of what you've been hoping for.
That's part of being a spiritual success. It can't weaken. And how clear does it get? You can't please God and I can't please God without faith.
That's serious business. And none of us want to go the remainder of the time, not pleasing our Heavenly Father, Jehovah God and appreciate that.
In fact, right before he went into that in the previous, what we call chapter 10, notice verse 38 and verse 39 of chapter 10.
But my righteous one will live by reason of faith and if he shrinks back, I have no pleasure in him.
Now, we are not the sort who shrink back to destruction, but the sort who have faith for the preserving of our lives or they were applying it now.
You're going to be a spiritual success in him, everlasting life, but to have to have faith.
Crucial.
Now, next, he mentions virtue. Now, that has to do with moral excellence.
So all of you have that somewhere single. Others, if you're married, you have virtue that moral excellence.
And when you're morally excellent, especially in these last days in this world, Bordia stand out.
And what does that do? It's not that you're trying to stand out. Your moral excellence, your virtuous behavior, glorifies God.
And Jehovah appreciates that. He wants us to succeed at glorifying him. Bring attention to it.
We don't joke about immorality.
You know what I mean? The comedians are full of it. We're morally excellent.
We don't have a thing to do with the spirit of the world with that.
Now, next, he mentions here, knowledge, knowledge. Well, obviously, you appreciate knowledge.
You had a lot of knowledge before you got to Gile, but how many people in this organization have a few months of studying like you have?
It is incredible, isn't it? I mean, very hard for you to explain to others. Then you are reading the Bible before you got here.
Don't raise your hand if you didn't quite get there. God forgives you.
Pins on circumstances. But once you were here, and we love our instructors here with the theocratic schools of teaching committee.
You have a whole lot more knowledge than you did a few months ago. Don't you agree? It's just wonderful.
Now, part of you succeeding is don't be satisfied with this downpour of all his knowledge.
Just take it as valuable to keep going. You've got some new ideas on how to research some things and go with it.
But if you're going to be a spiritual success, you've got to keep taking in the knowledge.
It's very clear, very simple, and Jehovah will bless your intake of knowledge.
There's no end to it. It's wonderful. It's always amazed.
As I said, the more I learn, the more I realize how little I know.
No, that's not just a statement. That's a fact.
Imagine what Jehovah says, but isn't that great? It'll go on pre-turningly, taking in knowledge.
If you do it now, you'll be able to do it forever. What a honor of our Heavenly Father.
Again, he mentions here to your knowledge self-control.
Now, that's an aspect of the footage of the Spirit that you're well aware of.
You have to have, if you're going to succeed spiritually and gain everlasting life, you need self-control.
And you have to pray about it, especially in these last days.
Notice 1 Corinthians chapter 10, and we'll come back here to Peter right after him.
So here in verse 12, 1 Corinthians 10, 12, so let the one who thinks he is standing beware that he does not fall.
So our thinking, we need to pray for self-control with it.
Because the devil and his wicked system, as well as he and his demons, are always trying to affect our thinking.
So in this case here, you think you're standing? Guess what? You're about ready to fall.
It's all by saying to your Holy Police, give me self-control.
Or you see when the devil might try some sort of temptation or whatever thing you face.
Give me self-control. I want to stand firm for you. Now you're okay.
The Holy Spirit will do that. You'll have that self-control necessary to oppose the devil in his wicked effort.
Make it so that we don't succeed. So it's just crucial.
Now next, he mentions, with self-control, the blueprint goes on endurance.
Why? We could spend considerable time just talking about endurance.
It's absolutely essential. Some of the things you've endured already in your dedicated life and as I told the brothers and the coordinators committee office, you know, when we're facing these disasters and all these things.
And I've been telling them, for some time now cheer up, it's going to get worse.
And so we keep a sense of humor with it, but that's a fact.
What we're experiencing right now in this global pandemic.
I was telling the branch class yesterday, it doesn't bother me.
We've been waiting for this. We knew things like this were going to happen.
Christ Jesus is preparedness. Where's the shock?
Now you got to think in Jehovah directs us with how to deal with these things, but we endure.
And that's why Jesus, you remember this in Matthew 24, and we'll come back here.
Matthew chapter 24.
And we've been so well equipped. It's all here.
So we can be a success. Verse 13, Matthew 24.
But the one who has endured to the end, who showed some endurance, no?
The one who has endured to the end will be saved.
So that's what we beg Jehovah help us. It's part of the blueprint.
We're going to endure to the end.
Whatever we have to face with Jehovah's support, we're going to succeed.
Now, after endurance, he mentions godly devotion.
And I'll watch towers come in and this year's past.
And it's a beautiful thing to keep in mind.
And why this is so crucial to a spiritual success is, and it's captured nicely here in the revised translation, godly devotion.
So the thinking there and to try to convey what was coming across here for all of us is, you're devoted or undevoted to Jehovah personally.
This attachment to him personally.
So some of you are married couples. Well, you're made.
You want your mate to be attached to your god that you worship together.
That's what is going to make a success. Godly devotion, personally attached to Jehovah.
It affects every aspect of our life.
We're attached to him. It's personal.
It's just something special and everyone should have that feeling, not just devotion.
No attachment to him. We love him. We're whole soul.
You get exclusive devotion. Right now I'm just thinking about thinking of him and how you can't see him.
But I got goosebumps on my back, thinking about the love for him, the attachment to him.
And how nice when if you are married, your mate has that boy, you're going to succeed.
Devotion to him personally for all that he has shown and will show.
It's just very personal.
Next, he attaches after godly devotion, brotherly affection.
Brotherly affection.
So when you think about that now, and I appreciate it for the new mayor's comments.
And I saw this yesterday with you for a couple of lectures.
Then yesterday saw some of you after your last class and the new mayor mentioned how you enjoy Jehovah's company.
Well, what he was describing was your brotherly affection for each other.
It's real. It's genuine. You have that brotherly affection.
That should be true in all the congregations.
You've displayed it. Well, to succeed, you've got to continue to do that.
Well, here's something for you to think about.
Because commendably, you've done well with that.
Sure, you're going to take it back with you.
This need for godly devotion.
You're going to do that.
Counting on it. However, here's a thought for you from first, first,
first, that salon is chapter four.
First, that salon is chapter four to something to consider.
You're soon to be graduates and take it with you to your assignments.
First, that salon is chapter four, verse nine.
And then here, the 10th verse is well.
However, concerning brotherly love, you do not need us to write to you.
For you yourselves are taught by God to love one another.
In fact, you are doing so toward all the brothers and all of Macedonia.
Now notice this. This is a thought provoking point.
But we urge you, brothers, to go on doing so in fuller measure.
Oh, so that applies to you too.
You've shown it during your class.
But I want you to think about it from time to time so you're a spiritual success.
You've got to ask yourself individually, particularly.
Maybe there's a couple of you wish.
Are you doing it in fuller measure?
A lot to think about.
Seeing as things get more and more critical, good point.
We need this godly expression here of our brotherly affection.
We love our brothers.
We forgive each other, but we have this.
And it's got to get fuller.
And we know you're going to do that.
You'll think about it.
Just examine yourself from time to time with this blueprint.
Are you showing brotherly affection in fuller measure?
And you might get back.
You know, we're all different.
I don't know your circumstances.
Obviously, God doesn't Christ Jesus does, but some might say,
boy, she's just filled with brotherly affection.
Amazing.
I don't remember that about her before.
Or him, no, so the sisters don't want to feel like I'm picking on you.
The same applies to the brothers, but love brotherly affection, fuller measure.
Something to think about from time to time.
Now, back here in Peter's second letter,
this is the last thought that he puts into the blueprint
to your godly devotion, brotherly affection,
and then notice to your brotherly affection, love.
So that has reference to agape.
So brotherly affection is a unique expression on brothers
that love for them.
But this is a principled love, as you know.
So it's governed by principle.
And that's the kind of love we need to keep on preaching.
Because people are going to get more and more distinct
with their contempt for us.
It's growing in most countries.
Well, the agape's going to move us to keep on going.
No matter how they mistreat us,
and what they say or do, we're going to show love
until Jehovah says that's it.
No more preaching.
And think about our time right now,
because of this threat there in these national security problems
in different countries, metropolitan preaching in many countries.
It's not happening.
Mm-hmm.
Door to doors.
And problems.
Memorial campaign.
Different things going on.
Jehovah has given a spirit to the governing body
to try to do the right thing, respect Caesar,
and obey him as our ruler.
He makes you think, what are they inactive?
Or others that have known about the tool, what are they thinking?
Well, we hope the best for them, but you better move.
This is a serious business.
We hope that God's going to help us to try to reach out to him.
And that was the time for action,
because the day's coming.
That's it.
It's over.
Once a great tribulation breaks out, that's it.
Can you help?
Mm-hmm.
It's over for him.
So those are the nine parts of the blueprint for spiritual success.
Notice the thought here.
And that's what we want to conclude with.
Verse eight.
For if these things exist in you,
now notice, and overflow,
they will prevent you from being either inactive
or unfruitful regarding the accurate knowledge
of our Lord Jesus Christ.
So there it is.
So just exhorting you.
Freshers once soon to graduate.
Don't let it just exist.
The blueprint.
Let all of this overflow.
And you are guaranteed to be a spiritual success.
Well, we appreciate that very much, Brother Morris.
Thank you for that blueprint,
that guarantees success in building spirituality in ourselves and others.
Now, you probably have noticed that we have some envelopes here on our table.
Now, these are not ordinary envelopes.
They're special envelopes containing some special items.
Now, in these envelopes are your diplomas.
There's a class picture in the envelopes.
There's a letter from the teaching committee.
And some of the envelopes contain additional letters
regarding World Headquarters assignments.
And there's a note indicating that you will receive a modest monetary gift
deposited into your account on Monday.
So some good things in these envelopes.
We're confident that all of you will appreciate receiving these special envelopes.
So one by one, and couple by couple,
we're going to have you come up and receive your envelopes.
Now, Brother David Schaeffer, a helper to the teaching committee,
is going to help me here.
And he's got the hard job.
He has to pronounce all of these names.
And the pressure that's on him,
the parents and relatives are listening,
and they'll know if he did it right.
But all I have to do is hand the envelopes to them
and give them an elbow bump.
That's our modified handshake as recommended by the health department.
So we're going to have you come up and please, Brother Schaeffer.
So first we have Brother and Sister Akiyama,
and they will be returning to Brazil.
And next we have Brother and Sister Arthur,
and they will be returning to Ghana.
Next we have Brother and Sister Asenoff,
and they will be returning to Bulgaria.
Brother Bonsinski will now be serving in Germany.
Sister Bocharnyiková will be serving in Finland.
Brother and Sister Bonomi will be returning to Peru.
Brother and Sister Chapman will be returning to the Dominican Republic.
Brother and Sister Chong will be returning to Korea.
Brother and Sister Dela Cruz will be returning to Micronesia.
Brother and Sister Dominguis will be returning to Angola.
Brother and Sister Gabriel will be returning to Belgium.
Brother Gambatise will be returning to Argentina.
Brother and Sister Jheha will be returning to the Middle East.
Sister Gonzales will be returning to Spain.
Brother and Sister Haboneymana will be returning to Burundi.
Brother Kim will be returning to Chile.
Brother Leia Tosh off will be returning to Finland.
Brother Matthew will be returning to Sri Lanka.
Brother Metz will be returning to the Dominican Republic.
Brother McKeeze will be returning to South Africa.
Brother Insister Moacile will be returning to Kenya.
Brother Ngoy will be returning to Congo, Kinshasa.
Brother Insister Owen will now be serving in Angola.
Brother Parker will now be serving in the United States.
Brother Insister Potilantakis will be returning to Greece.
Brother Insister Rafaeli will now be serving in Angola.
Sister Raj Kanu will be returning to India.
Brother Insister Sada Alp will be returning to Turkey.
Brother Insister Susana will now be serving in Madagascar.
Brother Vyutmula will be returning to Germany.
And finally, Brother Insister Zetaend will be returning to the Netherlands.
I think we were really getting into that elbow, Bob, or way.
Although that will wear you down after all of those bumps.
But we try to follow the good example
and that they're recommending with the health department.
And we're so happy to have been able to give those special envelopes
to all these dear ones.
The governing body is very happy to give them.
And we know that you all are very happy to have received them
and to have reached the spiritual milestone in your theocratic career.
In fact, now we're not going to call you Gilead students.
No longer students, we're going to call you Gilead graduates
because you have now your diplomas.
But now let's raise our curtain and get a look at the entire 148th class
of the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead.
That was a nice applause you gave to yourself.
I got to tease them a little bit.
But what a nice-looking group.
Those smiling faces, a handsome group.
And if you look very closely, they look quite a bit smarter
than they did five months ago.
They've learned a lot during this time.
But while you're looking at this beautiful group,
permit me please to give a few statistics to give you an overview.
Now, so you don't try to quickly count, we have 55 students,
or 55 graduates.
I can't say that anymore.
55 graduates of this 148th class of Gilead.
And that includes 20 couples, 11 single brothers, four single sisters.
The average age is 40.1.
That sounds young to me.
It's amazing, everything changes.
But the youngest 30.7, the oldest 56.1.
The average year's baptized 24.6.
The average year's in the full-time service, 17.9.
The average year's in special full-time service, 13.1.
And listen to this.
Languages spoken by this class, 35.
This is a multi-lingual class, for sure.
And that makes us think of the great crowd,
how they would be taken from all nations, tribes, peoples,
and tongues.
35 languages represented here.
And even though they're relatively young, as we said, average 40,
but they're quite experienced.
Because on average, they have spent 73% of the time
since they've been baptized in the full-time service.
So just about three quarters of the time,
since they've been baptized, they've been in the full-time service.
But now we're going to have our class letter, read by brother Musa Muassili.
And you can see now why I had brother Shaffer pronounce all the names.
But this is brother Musa Muassili.
And he's going back to Kenya.
And he's going to read the letter from the class.
To the governing body and the United States, the Bethel family,
dear brothers, from the moment we received the invitation to Giriad,
we eagerly anticipated what was to come.
Now, after five unforgettable months,
we fully agree with the job whose words,
my ears have heard about you.
But now, I do see you with my eyes.
By means of our deepest thought of God's word,
we have seen Jehovah's amazing qualities on fully display.
The way he shows love and care for his people
has been embedded in our minds and hearts.
We are determined to continue to imitate his example.
As soon as we came to school,
the Bethel family quickly endeared themselves to us
by their warmth, hospitality, and love.
Their self-sacrificing example
is one we will all cherish and take with us
when going to our assignments.
We have come to dearly love our instructors.
Each day, they have put their heart and soul
into their teaching.
And we felt they are genuinely love and concern for us.
By means of divine instruction,
we have seen Jehovah, our grand instructor,
and his spirit directed the organization
in new and faithless, strengthening ways.
We have been taught to dig into God's word like never before.
And we are deserved to apply what we have learned.
Observing the tireless work and unselfish spirit
that the members of the governing body display
motivates us to imitate their faith.
Our hearts are filled with a deeper gratitude
when we think about to the manifestes,
loving instruction, and personal attention
that was generously provided.
We have seen and felt that they are love and concern for us
and how they unitedly worked together.
They have instilled in us a greater desire
to imitate the head of the congregation, Jesus Christ.
They truly have approved to be gifted from Jehovah
and have become so beloved to us.
Although there are a unique circumstances
surrounding this graduation program,
we are not disheartened.
Rather, we are confident.
We feel strongly we are witnessing clear evidence
of you being faithful and discreet.
We have the utmost confidence and respect
in the direction you provide during these momentous times.
We praise our greatest God, Jehovah, for the gift of Bulgaria.
We express our sincere appreciation
and deep love to each one of you.
You are brothers and sisters, one forty-eighth the cross of Bulgaria.
Sorry, brother Osily, I forgot to give you your elbow, Bob.
Sorry about that.
But I took the letter and I'll make sure the governing body
gets this beautiful letter.
What a beautiful letter.
It nicely expresses your feelings about being at Gilead.
And you say you enjoyed being here.
Well, we say we enjoyed having you.
It was truly a mutual interchange of encouragement,
as mentioned in Romans chapter 1 and verse number 12.
And brother Musa did a beautiful job.
That was actually his first speaking assignment as a Gilead graduate.
But he really did a good job, didn't he?
It was really good.
He's going to do wonderful things in the future,
with Jehovah's help, just like all of you.
But we've really had a good time having you.
But now I get to talk five more minutes to you, one more time here.
And if you recall, in the opening discussion of our program,
we talked about four areas in which we can imitate Jesus' modesty.
Well, briefly, let's talk about one more aspect of modesty
that is closely related to being aware of our own limitations.
And that is, being aware of the limitations of others.
And again, our role model Jesus set a perfect example
in this aspect of modesty.
A ponder for a moment, if you will,
what is stated at Matthew chapter 3 verse 16?
It talks about how after Jesus was baptized,
he came up out of the water,
and then it says, the heavens were opened up.
What does that mean?
Well, the greatest man book makes this comment,
evidently it means that while he is being baptized,
the memory of his pre-human life in heaven returns to him.
Thus Jesus now fully recalls his life as a spirit son of Jehovah God,
including all the things that God spoke to him in heaven
during his pre-human existence.
Now that's an amazing comment, isn't it?
Can you just imagine flooding into the perfect human brain
of Jesus, the memory of billions of years
of pre-human existence, eons and eons of time,
a countless, countless experiences
as he served as a master worker beside Jehovah,
as he served as the prince of Jehovah's Army,
as he served as Jehovah's spokesman,
as he served as Michael the Archangel.
Now if you think about it,
that would have been the greatest download of information
that has had ever happened, see.
But here's the point, and like Jesus,
you received download here at Gilead, right?
Nothing like what Jesus got,
but you had a tremendous five month download, didn't you?
But the point is, how did Jesus use
all of this newly acquired voluminous,
tremendous knowledge that he received?
How did he use it in his dealings with others?
Well, he never overwhelmed them
with impressive displays of knowledge.
Now he could have done that, couldn't he?
Never did that.
He was always very aware of their limitations.
Very considered, very thoughtful.
And remember what he said to his disciples,
as recorded at John chapter 16, verse 12,
he said to them,
I still have many things to say to you,
but you are not able to bear them now.
Now it was very thoughtful one of their limitations,
even though he had all this tremendous knowledge.
So what a good example for us.
Additionally, even though he was perfect,
he was not a perfectionist.
In other words, he didn't require perfection of others.
He allowed for the mistakes, the shortcomings,
the weaknesses of others.
And if you think about this, many other ways,
he was sensitive, he was compassionate
regarding the limitations of others.
Just one more example, he knew his disciples at times
needed to get away from the crowds and rest.
Well, how can you dear Gilead graduates
imitate Jesus' modesty
in being aware of the limitations of others?
Well, as we've mentioned,
you had a tremendous five-month download of information,
but please use it modestly.
Use it in a way that you never put more on others
and they can bear.
Use it in a way that you realize their limitations, see?
Everyone has limitations, some more than others,
but being aware of that.
A little by little, share the good things you've learned
with these ones and always never put,
be aware to never put more on them than they can bear.
There's a saying by the mile is a trial,
by the yard is hard, but inch by inch is a cinch.
So just little by little, share and help the ones
in your territory, your congregation, your Bethel family,
help them to benefit from the good things
you've learned these last five months.
And please, by all means, allow for the imperfections
and shortcomings of others.
If the perfect one was not a perfectionist,
then even more so, we as all imperfect ones,
surely we can allow for imperfection of others.
And we know you're gonna be determined to do that.
And please be sensitive and compassionate,
concerning the physical, emotional limitations of others
as Jesus was.
But now, we've discussed all together five areas
in which we can imitate Jesus modesty in quick review.
We talk about, we need to always remember,
we have authority limitations and try hard to stay in balance.
Two, we have to remember our lesser importance,
compared to Jehovah's vastly greater importance.
Three, we have to remember there's something
we're simply not entitled to know, at least not now,
and then some things may be never.
Number four, we want to be aware of always
fully relying on Jehovah and never ourselves.
And the number five is we just discuss
always being aware of the limitations of others.
If we imitate Jesus modesty in these five areas,
Jehovah will love us dearly.
As he dearly loves his modest son,
he'll love us the same way.
And wherever we go, whatever privileges we have,
we will always be refreshing to others as Jesus was.
But now, in imitation of what is done on the JW broadcast,
they have a postcard at the end, don't they?
So we're going to have a postcard coming from the class,
the 148th class of Gilead.
Send them a postcard, send them, please,
your love and affection.
They send you warm love and affection
from the 148th class of Gilead.
So that's a lot of love that they sent.
And we finished by saying from the 148th class
of Gilead in the Patterson Auditorium,
this is JW Broadcasting.